# POSLANS

General-purpose student system targeted for universities.

## POSLANS Process of Students Logistics and Network Set-Up

Poslans is an interesting student system I started developing in 2017 when I was
in the middle of the university.

For instance, back in the day, I had some trouble getting insights about the
roadmap of my courses (I got two majors, so it's much more difficult) and
university staff was always complaining about hard-coded manual work. I even got
to see a database with students written and updated in a paper notebook at the
math department. That is not right at all for such an important and beautifully
diverse career like mathematics.

Other problems at schools arise from budget issues. Public universities usually
misspend money (because they do get it) or some schools just have a tight
budget. I want to consider this as a point to take on this extensive project.

One day when I was working on the system design I asked myself, what is the main
objective of a university or school? This is because everything is a tradeoff
like in engineering, so you must have a take on exactly what is the optimization
for what you are doing. The answer is simply the students. Schools are created
for students, thus, in an ideal education system, students are first-class
supported and all staff is second/third-class priority.

The traditional education system is archaic enough to avoid starting to do
things right with all available technology. So get the chance to fix much of the
pain points of that education system and let's implement information systems and
AI to dispose of all those unacceptable wrong-doings existing in the university
and that most of us had to suffer back in the day.

The system consists of the following subsystems:

- **My University:** Main administration control for the "university owner".
- **Admin:** Administrative control for faculty staff.
- **Connect:** End user app for students and professors.
- **Sections Manager:** Gives insights and management for opening and closing of
  academic terms, course sections taking into account course overlaps,
  professors, etc.

It ends up like an enterprise system although universities have a different
business model, they still have resources to optimize (our time and money they
receive). The importance of this is that resources are managed with informed
decisions and not by staff personal biases. Information systems and enterprise
systems are fundamental to keep numbers clear and avoid human-made corrupted
decisions.

Many nice results can be achieved. The idea is not to create something boring
like a common student system but to push a better-articulated mechanism to fix
what is wrong and get better results from good students and good professors.

The underlying technology initially consisted of:

- Java
- Java Swing
- MySQL
- SQLite
- JSON
- Excel for data format

So they were all desktop apps. I was into doing Java and desktop apps those
days, so I didn't lose the chance. The initial versions were mostly to play with
the available possibilities. The system will eventually evolve to something
general-purpose but useful enough to make a difference.

Regarding the licensing information, I will provide an open source license soon.

## About

**POSLANS**

General-purpose student system targeted for universities.

Copyright Â© 2017-2022 Tobias Briones. All rights reserved.
